docs/grpc-adapter.md, before:

# Using hpp-proto with gRPC

The `hpp_proto::grpc` helpers provide a seamless bridge between `hpp-proto`'s generated message types and the gRPC C++ asynchronous API. They wrap the `*.service.hpp` descriptors generated by the `protoc-gen-hpp` plugin, allowing you to implement services and issue RPCs without writing manual serialization or deserialization glue code.

This guide walks you through building a simple unary client and server, then provides references for more advanced streaming scenarios.

## Core Concepts

The adapter is built around two key components:

*   **`hpp_proto::grpc::Stub`**: A client-side stub that takes a `grpc::Channel` and your service's generated method tuple (`YourService::_methods`). It provides a `call()` method for unary RPCs and an `async_call()` method for streaming RPCs.
*   **`hpp_proto::grpc::CallbackService`**: A server-side helper that wires your service implementation into a `grpc::ServerBuilder`. You implement a `handle()` method for each RPC, which returns a request handler struct.

## A Complete Unary RPC Example

Let's build a full "Hello, World" client and server.

### 1. The `.proto` File

First, define the service and messages in a `.proto` file, like `helloworld.proto`:

```protobuf
// helloworld.proto
syntax = "proto3";

package helloworld;

// The greeting service definition.
service Greeter {
  // Sends a greeting
  rpc SayHello (HelloRequest) returns (HelloReply) {}
}

// The request message containing the user's name.
message HelloRequest {
  string name = 1;
}

// The response message containing the greetings
message HelloReply {
  string message = 1;
}
```

When you generate code with `protoc-gen-hpp`, this will produce `helloworld.msg.hpp`, `helloworld.pb.hpp`, and importantly, `helloworld.service.hpp`, which defines `helloworld::Greeter::_methods`.

### 2. The Server Implementation

The server implements the `Greeter` service using `hpp_proto::grpc::CallbackService`. For each RPC, you define a handler struct that contains the logic to execute when a request is received.

```cpp
// greeter_server.cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <memory>
#include <string>
#include <thread>
#include <condition_variable>

#include "helloworld.service.hpp" // Generated by hpp-proto
#include <hpp_proto/grpc/server.hpp>
#include <grpcpp/grpcpp.h>

namespace helloworld {

// Service implementation
class GreeterService : public ::hpp_proto::grpc::CallbackService<GreeterService, Greeter::_methods> {
public:
    // Handler for the SayHello RPC
    struct SayHelloHandler {
        SayHelloHandler(GreeterService&, ::hpp_proto::grpc::ServerRPC<Greeter::SayHello>& rpc,
                        ::hpp_proto::grpc::RequestToken<Greeter::SayHello> token) {
            
            std::cout << "Server received SayHello RPC\n";
            
            HelloRequest request;
            auto status = token.get(request); // Deserialize request

            if (!status.ok()) {
                rpc.finish(status);
                return;
            }
            
            if (request.name.empty()) {
                rpc.finish({::grpc::StatusCode::INVALID_ARGUMENT, "Name is not specified."});
                return;
            }

            using namespace std::string_literals;
            HelloReply reply{.message = "Hello, "s + request.name};
            
            // Serialize reply and finish the RPC
            rpc.finish(reply);
        }
    };
    
    // Tell the service to use SayHelloHandler for the SayHello RPC
    auto handle(Greeter::SayHello) -> SayHelloHandler;
};

} // namespace helloworld

void RunServer() {
    std::string server_address("0.0.0.0:50051");
    helloworld::GreeterService service;

    grpc::ServerBuilder builder;
    builder.AddListeningPort(server_address, grpc::InsecureServerCredentials());
    builder.RegisterService(&service); // Register the hpp-proto service

    std::unique_ptr<grpc::Server> server(builder.BuildAndStart());
    std::cout << "Server listening on " << server_address << "\n";
    server->Wait();
}

int main() {
    RunServer();
    return 0;
}
```

### 3. The Client Implementation

The client uses `hpp_proto::grpc::Stub` to make RPC calls. For unary RPCs, the `call()` method provides a simple, blocking interface.

```cpp
// greeter_client.cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <memory>
#include <string>

#include "helloworld.service.hpp" // Generated by hpp-proto
#include <hpp_proto/grpc/client.hpp>
#include <grpcpp/grpcpp.h>

// Define the stub type using the generated methods
using GreeterStub = ::hpp_proto::grpc::Stub<helloworld::Greeter::_methods>;

int main() {
    std::string server_address("localhost:50051");
    auto channel = grpc::CreateChannel(server_address, grpc::InsecureChannelCredentials());
    GreeterStub stub{channel, grpc::StubOptions{}};

    // Prepare request and reply messages
    helloworld::HelloRequest request;
    request.name = "hpp-proto";
    helloworld::HelloReply reply;

    // The ClientContext allows you to set deadlines, metadata, etc.
    ::grpc::ClientContext context;

    std::cout << "Client sending SayHello RPC to server...\n";
    
    // Make the unary RPC call
    auto status = stub.call<helloworld::Greeter::SayHello>(context, request, reply);

    if (status.ok()) {
        std::cout << "Server replied: \"" << reply.message << "\"\n";
    } else {
        std::cerr << "RPC failed: " << status.error_code() << ": " << status.error_message() << "\n";
        return 1;
    }

    return 0;
}
```

## Advanced Usage: Streaming RPCs

The adapter also provides powerful, low-level callback reactors for handling client, server, and bidirectional streams.

## Serialization Modes (out_sink only)

`hpp-proto` supports three serialization modes that trade off speed vs. memory when using the gRPC adapter. These modes
apply only to out_sink-based serialization (i.e., when the gRPC adapter writes into `grpc::ByteBuffer`). Buffer-based
serialization is always contiguous and ignores these options.

- **Contiguous** (`hpp_proto::contiguous_mode`): serialize into a single contiguous slice when possible. Fastest, but
  requires a full contiguous buffer.
- **Adaptive** (`hpp_proto::adaptive_mode`): default behavior; tries contiguous first and falls back to chunked when
  the message doesn't fit.
- **Chunked** (`hpp_proto::chunked_mode`): always emit chunked output. Lowest peak memory, but more overhead.

At the gRPC adapter layer, pass the mode as an option to your request/response handling:

```cpp
// Server side: choose mode when finishing a response.
rpc.finish(reply, hpp_proto::contiguous_mode);

// Client side: choose mode for a unary call.
auto status = stub.call<helloworld::Greeter::SayHello>(
    context, request, reply, hpp_proto::adaptive_mode);
```

### Streaming Best Practices
The gRPC callback reactors enforce sequencing rules:
- **Client streaming**: Only one `write()` or `write_last()` can be in flight. Wait for `OnWriteDone()` before issuing the next write. If you call `write_last()`, do **not** call `write_done()` afterward—`write_last` already marks completion. (See `tests/grpc/client_stream_tests.cpp`.)
- **Bidirectional streaming**: `ClientBidiReactor` lacks `TryCancel()`. Store the `grpc::ClientContext` you passed to `async_call` and call `context->TryCancel()` when needed. (See `tests/grpc/bidi_stream_tests.cpp`.)
- **Server streaming**: `ServerRPC::write` serializes immediately, so you can reuse buffers between writes.

### Streaming Reference (see `tests/grpc` for full examples)
| Scenario | Reactor | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Unary RPC | (none) | `tests/grpc/unary_tests.cpp` |
| Client streaming | `ClientCallbackReactor<ClientStreamAggregate>` | `tests/grpc/client_stream_tests.cpp` |
| Server streaming | `ClientCallbackReactor<ServerStreamFanout>` | `tests/grpc/server_stream_tests.cpp` |
| Bidirectional streaming | `ClientCallbackReactor<BidiStreamChat>` | `tests/grpc/bidi_stream_tests.cpp` |

### `ClientCallbackReactor` API Summary

| Method type | Inherits from | Extras | User Overrides |
|---|---|---|---|
| Unary | `::grpc::ClientUnaryReactor` | `start_call()`, `get_response()` | `OnReadInitialMetadataDone`, `OnDone`, `OnCancel` |
| Client streaming | `::grpc::ClientWriteReactor<...>` | `write()`, `write_last()`, `write_done()` | `OnReadInitialMetadataDone`, `OnWriteDone`, `OnDone`, `OnCancel` |
| Server streaming | `::grpc::ClientReadReactor<...>` | `start_call()`, `start_read()`, `get_response()` | `OnReadInitialMetadataDone`, `OnReadDone`, `OnDone`, `OnCancel` |
| Bidi streaming | `::grpc::ClientBidiReactor<...>` | `start_call()`, `start_read()`, `write()`, etc. | `OnReadInitialMetadataDone`, `OnReadDone`, `OnWriteDone`, `OnDone`, `OnCancel` |

### `ServerRPC` API Summary

| Method type | Inherits from | Extras | Handler Hooks |
|---|---|---|---|
| Unary | `::grpc::ServerUnaryReactor` | `RequestToken::get()`, `finish(response)` | `on_send_initial_metadata_done`, `on_done`, `on_cancel` |
| Client streaming | `::grpc::ServerReadReactor<...>` | `start_read()`, `RequestToken::get()`, `finish(response)` | `on_send_initial_metadata_done`, `on_read_ok`, `on_read_error`, `on_done`, `on_cancel` |
| Server streaming | `::grpc::ServerWriteReactor<...>` | `write(response)`, `finish(status)` | `on_send_initial_metadata_done`, `on_write_ok`, `on_write_error`, `on_done`, `on_cancel` |
| Bidirectional streaming | `::grpc::ServerBidiReactor<...>` | `start_read()`, `write(response)`, `finish(status)` | `on_send_initial_metadata_done`, `on_read_ok`, `on_write_ok`, `on_write_error`, `on_done`, `on_cancel` |

## Tutorial References
- `tutorial/grpc/greeter_client.cpp`: Synchronous unary and asynchronous streaming clients.
- `tutorial/grpc/greeter_server.cpp`: Callback handlers with examples of streaming hooks.

Commit message:

fix server onReadDone(false) case

docs/grpc-adapter.md, after:

# Using hpp-proto with gRPC

The `hpp_proto::grpc` helpers provide a seamless bridge between `hpp-proto`'s generated message types and the gRPC C++ asynchronous API. They wrap the `*.service.hpp` descriptors generated by the `protoc-gen-hpp` plugin, allowing you to implement services and issue RPCs without writing manual serialization or deserialization glue code.

This guide walks you through building a simple unary client and server, then provides references for more advanced streaming scenarios.

## Core Concepts

The adapter is built around two key components:

*   **`hpp_proto::grpc::Stub`**: A client-side stub that takes a `grpc::Channel` and your service's generated method tuple (`YourService::_methods`). It provides a `call()` method for unary RPCs and an `async_call()` method for streaming RPCs.
*   **`hpp_proto::grpc::CallbackService`**: A server-side helper that wires your service implementation into a `grpc::ServerBuilder`. You implement a `handle()` method for each RPC, which returns a request handler struct.

## A Complete Unary RPC Example

Let's build a full "Hello, World" client and server.

### 1. The `.proto` File

First, define the service and messages in a `.proto` file, like `helloworld.proto`:

```protobuf
// helloworld.proto
syntax = "proto3";

package helloworld;

// The greeting service definition.
service Greeter {
  // Sends a greeting
  rpc SayHello (HelloRequest) returns (HelloReply) {}
}

// The request message containing the user's name.
message HelloRequest {
  string name = 1;
}

// The response message containing the greetings
message HelloReply {
  string message = 1;
}
```

When you generate code with `protoc-gen-hpp`, this will produce `helloworld.msg.hpp`, `helloworld.pb.hpp`, and importantly, `helloworld.service.hpp`, which defines `helloworld::Greeter::_methods`.

### 2. The Server Implementation

The server implements the `Greeter` service using `hpp_proto::grpc::CallbackService`. For each RPC, you define a handler struct that contains the logic to execute when a request is received.

```cpp
// greeter_server.cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <memory>
#include <string>
#include <thread>
#include <condition_variable>

#include "helloworld.service.hpp" // Generated by hpp-proto
#include <hpp_proto/grpc/server.hpp>
#include <grpcpp/grpcpp.h>

namespace helloworld {

// Service implementation
class GreeterService : public ::hpp_proto::grpc::CallbackService<GreeterService, Greeter::_methods> {
public:
    // Handler for the SayHello RPC
    struct SayHelloHandler {
        SayHelloHandler(GreeterService&, ::hpp_proto::grpc::ServerRPC<Greeter::SayHello>& rpc,
                        ::hpp_proto::grpc::RequestToken<Greeter::SayHello> token) {
            
            std::cout << "Server received SayHello RPC\n";
            
            HelloRequest request;
            auto status = token.get(request); // Deserialize request

            if (!status.ok()) {
                rpc.finish(status);
                return;
            }
            
            if (request.name.empty()) {
                rpc.finish({::grpc::StatusCode::INVALID_ARGUMENT, "Name is not specified."});
                return;
            }

            using namespace std::string_literals;
            HelloReply reply{.message = "Hello, "s + request.name};
            
            // Serialize reply and finish the RPC
            rpc.finish(reply);
        }
    };
    
    // Tell the service to use SayHelloHandler for the SayHello RPC
    auto handle(Greeter::SayHello) -> SayHelloHandler;
};

} // namespace helloworld

void RunServer() {
    std::string server_address("0.0.0.0:50051");
    helloworld::GreeterService service;

    grpc::ServerBuilder builder;
    builder.AddListeningPort(server_address, grpc::InsecureServerCredentials());
    builder.RegisterService(&service); // Register the hpp-proto service

    std::unique_ptr<grpc::Server> server(builder.BuildAndStart());
    std::cout << "Server listening on " << server_address << "\n";
    server->Wait();
}

int main() {
    RunServer();
    return 0;
}
```

### 3. The Client Implementation

The client uses `hpp_proto::grpc::Stub` to make RPC calls. For unary RPCs, the `call()` method provides a simple, blocking interface.

```cpp
// greeter_client.cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <memory>
#include <string>

#include "helloworld.service.hpp" // Generated by hpp-proto
#include <hpp_proto/grpc/client.hpp>
#include <grpcpp/grpcpp.h>

// Define the stub type using the generated methods
using GreeterStub = ::hpp_proto::grpc::Stub<helloworld::Greeter::_methods>;

int main() {
    std::string server_address("localhost:50051");
    auto channel = grpc::CreateChannel(server_address, grpc::InsecureChannelCredentials());
    GreeterStub stub{channel, grpc::StubOptions{}};

    // Prepare request and reply messages
    helloworld::HelloRequest request;
    request.name = "hpp-proto";
    helloworld::HelloReply reply;

    // The ClientContext allows you to set deadlines, metadata, etc.
    ::grpc::ClientContext context;

    std::cout << "Client sending SayHello RPC to server...\n";
    
    // Make the unary RPC call
    auto status = stub.call<helloworld::Greeter::SayHello>(context, request, reply);

    if (status.ok()) {
        std::cout << "Server replied: \"" << reply.message << "\"\n";
    } else {
        std::cerr << "RPC failed: " << status.error_code() << ": " << status.error_message() << "\n";
        return 1;
    }

    return 0;
}
```

## Advanced Usage: Streaming RPCs

The adapter also provides powerful, low-level callback reactors for handling client, server, and bidirectional streams.

## Serialization Modes (out_sink only)

`hpp-proto` supports three serialization modes that trade off speed vs. memory when using the gRPC adapter. These modes
apply only to out_sink-based serialization (i.e., when the gRPC adapter writes into `grpc::ByteBuffer`). Buffer-based
serialization is always contiguous and ignores these options.

- **Contiguous** (`hpp_proto::contiguous_mode`): serialize into a single contiguous slice when possible. Fastest, but
  requires a full contiguous buffer.
- **Adaptive** (`hpp_proto::adaptive_mode`): default behavior; tries contiguous first and falls back to chunked when
  the message doesn't fit.
- **Chunked** (`hpp_proto::chunked_mode`): always emit chunked output. Lowest peak memory, but more overhead.

At the gRPC adapter layer, pass the mode as an option to your request/response handling:

```cpp
// Server side: choose mode when finishing a response.
rpc.finish(reply, hpp_proto::contiguous_mode);

// Client side: choose mode for a unary call.
auto status = stub.call<helloworld::Greeter::SayHello>(
    context, request, reply, hpp_proto::adaptive_mode);
```

### Streaming Best Practices
The gRPC callback reactors enforce sequencing rules:
- **Client streaming**: Only one `write()` or `write_last()` can be in flight. Wait for `OnWriteDone()` before issuing the next write. If you call `write_last()`, do **not** call `write_done()` afterward—`write_last` already marks completion. (See `tests/grpc/client_stream_tests.cpp`.)
- **Bidirectional streaming**: `ClientBidiReactor` lacks `TryCancel()`. Store the `grpc::ClientContext` you passed to `async_call` and call `context->TryCancel()` when needed. (See `tests/grpc/bidi_stream_tests.cpp`.)
- **Server streaming**: `ServerRPC::write` serializes immediately, so you can reuse buffers between writes.
- **Server read-close handling**: For server-side client/bidi streams, `OnReadDone(false)` means no more inbound reads. In `hpp_proto::grpc::CallbackService`, handlers can distinguish terminal read states with:
  - `on_read_eof(rpc_t&) -> bool`
  - `on_read_cancel(rpc_t&) -> bool`
  If the callback returns `true`, the handler fully handled the event (for example by calling `rpc.finish(...)`).
  If it returns `false` (or callback is absent), the framework applies fallback finish behavior.

### Server Handler Callback Contract

For handlers used by `hpp_proto::grpc::CallbackService`:

- `on_read_ok(rpc_t&, RequestToken<Method>)`
  Called for each successful inbound read on client-streaming/bidi methods.
- `on_read_eof(rpc_t&) -> bool`
  Optional. Called on non-cancel terminal read (`OnReadDone(false)` and `!context.IsCancelled()`).
- `on_read_cancel(rpc_t&) -> bool`
  Optional. Called on canceled terminal read (`OnReadDone(false)` and `context.IsCancelled()`).
- `on_write_ok(rpc_t&)`
  Called after a successful async write on server-streaming/bidi methods.
- `on_write_error(rpc_t&) -> bool`
  Optional. Called when write completion fails (`OnWriteDone(false)`).

Return semantics for boolean callbacks:

- `true`: handler fully handled terminal event.
- `false`: framework fallback applies (`Finish(CANCELLED/OK/UNKNOWN)` depending on state/path).

### Streaming Reference (see `tests/grpc` for full examples)
| Scenario | Reactor | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Unary RPC | (none) | `tests/grpc/unary_tests.cpp` |
| Client streaming | `ClientCallbackReactor<ClientStreamAggregate>` | `tests/grpc/client_stream_tests.cpp` |
| Server streaming | `ClientCallbackReactor<ServerStreamFanout>` | `tests/grpc/server_stream_tests.cpp` |
| Bidirectional streaming | `ClientCallbackReactor<BidiStreamChat>` | `tests/grpc/bidi_stream_tests.cpp` |

### `ClientCallbackReactor` API Summary

| Method type | Inherits from | Extras | User Overrides |
|---|---|---|---|
| Unary | `::grpc::ClientUnaryReactor` | `start_call()`, `get_response()` | `OnReadInitialMetadataDone`, `OnDone`, `OnCancel` |
| Client streaming | `::grpc::ClientWriteReactor<...>` | `write()`, `write_last()`, `write_done()` | `OnReadInitialMetadataDone`, `OnWriteDone`, `OnDone`, `OnCancel` |
| Server streaming | `::grpc::ClientReadReactor<...>` | `start_call()`, `start_read()`, `get_response()` | `OnReadInitialMetadataDone`, `OnReadDone`, `OnDone`, `OnCancel` |
| Bidi streaming | `::grpc::ClientBidiReactor<...>` | `start_call()`, `start_read()`, `write()`, etc. | `OnReadInitialMetadataDone`, `OnReadDone`, `OnWriteDone`, `OnDone`, `OnCancel` |

### `ServerRPC` API Summary

| Method type | Inherits from | Extras | Handler Hooks |
|---|---|---|---|
| Unary | `::grpc::ServerUnaryReactor` | `RequestToken::get()`, `finish(response)` | `on_send_initial_metadata_done`, `on_done`, `on_cancel` |
| Client streaming | `::grpc::ServerReadReactor<...>` | `start_read()`, `RequestToken::get()`, `finish(response)` | `on_send_initial_metadata_done`, `on_read_ok`, `on_read_eof` (optional, bool), `on_read_cancel` (optional, bool), `on_done`, `on_cancel` |
| Server streaming | `::grpc::ServerWriteReactor<...>` | `write(response)`, `finish(status)` | `on_send_initial_metadata_done`, `on_write_ok`, `on_write_error` (optional, bool), `on_done`, `on_cancel` |
| Bidirectional streaming | `::grpc::ServerBidiReactor<...>` | `start_read()`, `write(response)`, `finish(status)` | `on_send_initial_metadata_done`, `on_read_ok`, `on_read_eof` (optional, bool), `on_read_cancel` (optional, bool), `on_write_ok`, `on_write_error` (optional, bool), `on_done`, `on_cancel` |

## Tutorial References
- `tutorial/grpc/greeter_client.cpp`: Synchronous unary and asynchronous streaming clients.
- `tutorial/grpc/greeter_server.cpp`: Callback handlers with examples of streaming hooks.
